docs: extending smart account doc for managing plugins on a modular account (#443)
alchemyplatform/aa-sdk: site/extending-smart-accounts/install-plugins.md

---

# How to install and uninstall plugins on a Modular Account

[ERC-6900](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-6900) Modular Accounts implements Plugin manager interface [`IPluginManager.sol`](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-6900#ipluginmanagersol) to support installing and uninstalling plugins on a Modular Account. This contract interface defines the method `installPlugin()` and `uninstallPlugin()` that clients can use to install or uninstall plugins on a Modular Account.

Account Kit provides a streamlined experience of interacting with Modular Account AccoutLoupe interface easily by providing `pluginManagerActions` defined in `@alchemy/aa-accounts` package. When you connect your Modular Account to `SmartAccountClient` you can extend the client with `pluginManagerActions`, which exposes a set of methods available to call the account `AccountLoupe` with the client connected to the account.

In fact, there are two ways to install plugins. First method is to use the `pluginManagerActions`'s generic `installPlugin` method, but this method requires you to configure the correct plugin dependencies and function references for the plugin.

> Account Kit provides more robust, easier way to install plugins with `pluginActions`. Each plugin comes with the its own `pluginActions` that includes already configured install method, named `install<PluginName>`, for installing any plugin of interest. For example, `MultiOwnerPlugin` has `multiOwnerPluginActions` that includes `installMultiOwnerPlugin()` method, and `SessionKeyPlugin` has `sessionKeyPluginActions` that includes `installSessionKeyPlugin()` method, all exported on `@alchemy/aa-accounts` package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Account Kit provides more robust, easier way to install plugins with `pluginActions`. Each plugin comes with the its own `pluginActions` that includes already configured install method, named `install<PluginName>`, for installing any plugin of interest. For example, `MultiOwnerPlugin` has `multiOwnerPluginActions` that includes `installMultiOwnerPlugin()` method, and `SessionKeyPlugin` has `sessionKeyPluginActions` that includes `installSessionKeyPlugin()` method, all exported from the `@alchemy/aa-accounts` package.
```

This guide will use the `SessionKeyPlugin` as an example to show how you can install `SessionKeyPlugin` easily using the `SmartAccountClient` extended with `sessionKeyPluginActions`.

### 1. Installing the Session Key Plugin

> You should first extends the `SmartAcountClient` connected to a Modular Account with client to `sessionKeyPluginActions` for the client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should first extend the `SmartAcountClient` connected to a Modular Account with `sessionKeyPluginActions`.
```

Then, you can use the `installSessionKeyPlugin()` method exposed on `sessionKeyPluginActions` extended smart account client to install the session key plugin for the connected account.

::: code-group

```ts [example.ts]
import { smartAccountClient as modularAccountClient } from "./smartAccountClient";
import { sessionKeyPluginActions } from "@alchemy/aa-accounts";

// [!code focus:99]
// extend smart account client with sessionKeyPluginActions to call SessionKeyPlugin methods
const sessionKeyExtendedClient = modularAccountClient.extend(
  sessionKeyExtendedClient
);

> const { hash } = await sessionKeyExtendedClient.installSessionKeyPlugin({

Reviewer: nit: maybe before this we should also check if the plugin is already installed

  // 1st arg is the initial set of session keys
  // 2nd arg is the tags for the session keys
  // 3rd arg is the initial set of permissions
  args: [[], [], []],
});

await client.waitForUserOperationTransaction({ hash });
```

<<< @/snippets/aa-alchemy/connected-client.ts [smartAccountClient.ts]

:::

You can refer to the [Session Key](/using-smart-accounts/session-keys/index.md) section to learn more about using the `SessionKeyPlugin`.

### 2. Uninstalling the Session Key Plugin

On the other hand, uninstalling plugin usually does not involve configuring contract depedencies or function references. You can use the `pluginManagerActions`'s generic `uninstallPlugin` method to uninstall a particular plugin of interest.

> You should first extends the `SmartAcountClient` connected to a Modular Account with client to `pluginManagerActions` for the client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should first extend the `SmartAcountClient` connected to a Modular Account with `pluginManagerActions`.
```
